# Project Proposal

The project we at Activision JV wanted to accomplish for our final project is a
2d soccer game in Pymunk and pygame. This game would have a path finding AI that
the user can play against as well as keep track of goals, and allow the user to
control 1 agent which would be able to push the soccer ball around the playing
filed using the physics engine we found in Pymunk. Another tool we would use is
graphing the correct goal lines and spawning the ball after each Goal. One
reason why we hoped to create this game is due to simple boredom in between
classes as many classes are in 101 Alden. This would allow for me and Austin to
get some skills in the 10-15 minutes before we begin our next lecture. The AI
would have a path finding algorithm which would iterate until it is pushing the
ball. Once the AI is able to push the ball its next command would be to push the
ball into its respective goal. A challenge we see in this algorithm is giving
the AI movement that would allow it to move on the x and y plane simultaneously
rather than have it move one axis at a time to add dificulty versus the user. We
were thinking about adding a shooting function as well which would give the AI
another dimension but this in turn could cause the AI to be more difficult to
implement so we are still looking for other sources. Without the shooting
function however we can still tell the AI to push the ball through the goals.

There are many tools that need to be used in order to complete this project. As
stated before, one of the packages we plan to use is called Pygame. This allows
us to easily create games using the python programming language. It can be
described as "a Free and Open Source python programming language library for
making multimedia applications like games built on top of the excellent SDL
library." After starting development, it is very easy to start to place objects
and put controls in to the game. Also, we will need to use Pymunk. As a soccer
game, the ball that is on the field must move around the top down view 2d plane
bouncing off the walls and the players in the game. Making this all work fluidly
from scratch would be very difficult; thankfully Pymunk is a physics library
that can easily be used along side Pygame. As we have already implemented these
physics, pymunk can easily be used to make realistic physics in games. It can be
described as "an easy-to-use pythonic 2d physics library that can be used
whenever you need 2d rigid body physics from Python."

Finally, along with the other two sources describing our inspiration to make a
Python video game, there are many papers describing the importance of artificial
intelligence in games. The paper *Artificial Intelligence and Games:
Applications and New Directions* shows the importance artificial intelligence
holds in games. It states, "The virtual worlds developed for games make good
domains for testing and developing AI techniques, so that the field of AI itself
will in turn be invigorated by its application to games." Clearly, many new AI
techniques can be tested and developed in gaming first, which can eventually
provide ground-breaking techniques. Also, this article states, "Artificial
Intelligence (AI) techniques facilitate the creation of such experience, and the
need for better AI in games is deeply felt and recognized by industry". As games
have increased in popularity, consumers want a better experience, and having
realisitc and sophisticated AI is one way to accomplish this task.

# Group members

Karol Vargas Austin Bristol

## References

Pymunk: http://www.pymunk.org/en/latest/ Pygame:
https://www.pygame.org/wiki/about AI in Games:
https://pdfs.semanticscholar.org/2f3c/30f3cef98b9d0c4ae79d40163a81b516a0f7.pdf
